---
layout: 		post
title: 			The 210
category: 	bread-and-butter
permalink: 	/bread-and-butter/the-210
excerpt:		The 210 is a smartphone app (for iOS & Android) designed for a company’s 210th anniversary event.
---

The 210 is a smartphone app (for iOS & Android) designed for a company’s 210th anniversary event.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="1" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/the-210/Portfolio_BB_The210_01.png" img-alt="An iOS and an Android smartphone showing the app splashscreen" img-caption="The application splashscreen with The 210 logo" %}

The company wanted a photo application that allows employees to take pictures of the event in an unique way. Not just another photo app that can be found on app stores, but something that convey the company culture and enhance the event experience.

The event concept was all about the company’s success over the years so using the analog camera metaphor to design the app was obvious.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="2" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/the-210/Portfolio_BB_The210_04.png" img-alt="Three iOS smartphones showing the walk-through screens" img-caption="A three screen walk-through to explain the analog camera metaphor" %}

The app concept is quite simple: People have a limited number of 21 shots and they can’t see the pictures before they are “developed”.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="3" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/the-210/Portfolio_BB_The210_05.png" img-alt="An iOS and an Android smartphone showing the camera interface" img-caption="The camera interface with a button inspired by The 210 logo" %}

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="4" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/the-210/Portfolio_BB_The210_06.png" img-alt="Three iOS smartphones showing the image capture animation" img-caption="When taking a picture, the button turns into a timer and the remaining shots indicator is updated" %}

The development process begins after the event with two outputs: 

1. Everyone can see his own pictures in the app Gallery at the rate of one picture a day
2. All the pictures are accessible on an interactive installation made up of two touchscreen tables in the company’s headquarter hallway

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="5" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/the-210/Portfolio_BB_The210_07.png" img-alt="An iOS and an Android smartphone showing development screen" img-caption="The photos are “developed” at the rate of one picture a day after the event" %}

Employees privacy and data security were important guidelines given by the company. The simple form below is designed to gather information about the person that take the pictures without being able to figure out the identity of this person. With roughly 30,000 photos taken, the interactive installation needed a simple way to sort and filter pictures. With basic information, categories and tags can be applied to images. After the event, on the touchscreen tables, people can choose to see, for example, pictures taken by women from Europe in the communication department.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="6" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/the-210/Portfolio_BB_The210_03.png" img-alt="Three iOS smartphones showing the sign up form workflow" img-caption="A simple form allows to cluster pictures while providing anonymity" %}

The app was also used by the company to communicate important information during the event with the people. For this system to work, iOS users have to allow push notifications. {% include template_link-target-blank.html href="https://techcrunch.com/2014/04/04/the-right-way-to-ask-users-for-ios-permissions/" txt="A good way to ask for iOS permissions" %} is to explain the value people will get out of notifications before asking them and use a two steps validation pattern that optimize acceptance rate.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="7" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/the-210/Portfolio_BB_The210_02.png" img-alt="An iOS smartphone showing the notifications screen" img-caption="The two steps permission pattern guarantee almost 100% of acceptance after tapping Allow" %}

For this project, I was in charge of User Research, Visual Design and Interaction Design. The challenge was to invent a photo app concept that fits the context of the event, reflect the company culture, respect the people’s privacy and matches the security guidelines. I worked closely with the client through a serie of workshops to validate ideas and make sure everybody was on the same track throughout the whole process.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="8" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/the-210/Portfolio_BB_The210_08.png" img-alt="An iOS smartphone showing the app icon in context" img-title="The 210 app icon in various sizes" %}

{% include template_copyright.html year="2015" author="Bread & Butter" %}