---
layout: 		post
title: 			Omega
category: 	bread-and-butter
permalink: 	/bread-and-butter/omega
excerpt:		This iPad app is the Omega in-store digital catalogue. The swiss luxury watch manufacturer uses it as a tool to showcase its collections in stores all around the world.
---

This iPad app is the Omega in-store digital catalogue. The swiss luxury watch manufacturer uses it as a tool to showcase its collections in stores all around the world.

{% include template_vimeo.html vimeo-id="152289401" video-ratio-precent="56.25" video-caption="Video screencast of Omega digital catalogue on iPad" %}

To improve the catalogue, Omega wanted its customers to be able to browse the Straps & Bracelets collection at the same time as the watches. The goal is to be able to see which straps are compatible with the selected watches and vice versa.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="1" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/omega/Portfolio_BB_Omega_01.png" img-alt="A tablet showing the sidebar menu" img-caption="The sidebar menu allow to browse the main categories" %}

The app has two goals; allow the customers to discover the products and choose the one that fit their needs and offer the shop employees a powerful sales tool to browse thousands of references painlessly. 

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="2" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/omega/Portfolio_BB_Omega_02.png" img-alt="A tablet showing the three band types" img-caption="A clear visual distinction in-between the three bands categories" %}

When designing for luxury brands it’s very important to honor the quality of the visual material. The watches and the bands are full of details and precision and this has to be reflected in the design of the interface.

Dealing with bulky images can slow down the app and drain the battery of the device while low resolution images can’t guarantee the level of details needed to showcase those high precision products. Finding the perfect balance in-between image quality and file size is essential to provide the best experience for people.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="3" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/omega/Portfolio_BB_Omega_03.png" img-alt="A tablet showing the watches and bands side by side" img-caption="This side-by-side layout allow the people to compare watches and bands" %}

Omega’s collection is composed of thousands of watches and cross-references. A particular watch can match dozens of bands which can match other watches. This level of complexity demand a high understanding of the structure of the database to be able to provide a simple interface that helps the customer discover the products and the sales assistant to quickly find a precise reference without having to dig into enormous printed catalogues.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="4" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/omega/Portfolio_BB_Omega_04.png" img-alt="A tablet showing the watches and bracelets side by side" img-caption="Each band category has its own filtering system. Leather bands are defined by their width while metal bracelets are sorted by the diameter of the dial." %}

The filtering system had to be flexible enough to support the collection updates in the future. The horizontal wheel selector can integrate an infinite number of items so it’s easy to add a new dial diameter or a new collection name if needed.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="5" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/omega/Portfolio_BB_Omega_05.png" img-alt="A tablet showing the NATO bands horizontal layout" img-caption="A custom layout for this special kind of bands called NATO" %}

The application also allows the sales assistant to register customer’s information when they buy a product. To validate the information, the customer have to sign the form with the signature feature.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="6" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/omega/Portfolio_BB_Omega_06.png" img-alt="A tablet showing the customer registration form screen" img-caption="In the form, the sales assistant can register the customer's signature" %}

The signature step is fullscreen so the sales assistant doesn't need to explain where to sign when passing the device to the customer because there is only one task to focus on. It is also easier to sign with the finger on a large surface.

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="7" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/omega/Portfolio_BB_Omega_07.png" img-alt="A tablet showing the signature screen" img-caption="The [Validate] button is greyed out until the sign area is filled" %}

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="8" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/omega/Portfolio_BB_Omega_08.png" img-alt="A tablet showing the signature screen with signature" img-caption="Once the sign area is filled, the [Validate] button is activated" %}

{% include template_img-lightbox.html img-id="9" img-path="/images/bread-and-butter/omega/Portfolio_BB_Omega_09.png" img-alt="A tablet showing the customer registration form with the signature added" img-caption="After validation, the signature can be edited or deleted from the form interface" %}

For this project, I was in charge of User Research, Visual Design, Interaction Design and Information Architecture. The greatest challenge was to understand and master the content’s complexity to provide the best experience for both the customer and the sales assistant with a simple interface.

{% include template_copyright.html year="2015" author="Bread & Butter" %}